# Professional README Generator

**NOTE**: This is the complete readme for 'Professional README Generator' project repo by jh871. This is not a demo readme generated by the application.
A demo file generated by this application can be found in the 'demo-readme' folder in this repo.


## Description

This application allows the user to generate a professional README markdown file on the command line by answering prompts. 

## Contents

1. [Installation](#installation)
2. [Usage](#usage)
3. [Development](#development)
4. [Resources](#resources)
5. [Video demo](#video-demonstration)



## Installation

This application requires the user to have access to the repo and files for this project. The user may need to also have node.js installed. This application runs in a terminal windwo, and the user will also need to be able to open .md markdown files to view the finished file.



## Usage

This application can be used to generate a professional readme file for a project repository.


### Instructions:

The user can launch this application in terminal (when in the correct directory) by typing 'node index.js'.
The user is then presented with instructions on how to use the application:

> "To enter your answers, please type the text in the prose you expect it to appear. WARNING: Pressing the Enter key while typing an answer will move to the next question. To generate a new line use <br>. To use bullet points: use "<br> - " with <br> after each point and a space after the hyphen, or use numbered points (1. abc <br>2. def <br>3. xyz) with <br> after each point. To check the existing file structure please view generateMarkdown.js in the utils folder. Press Enter to continue."

When the user presses enter on this they can begin answering prompts. Each response the user gives will generate content that going into the following sections: 
Title - title of project
Description - description of project
Installation - instructions for installing the product
Usage - how the product should be used
Contributing - who contributed, how to contribute
Tests - how the application can be tested
Questions - contact details for the author to be contacted with questions or contribution requests.

Following these prompts, the user can choose their own filename for the readme, which should appear in the same directory they are currently working in.

The readme file itself should contain a badge representing their repo license, as well as a table of contents that will link the user to the selected sections.




## Development

This application is build using Javascript and run via node. This includes the 'fs' file manager node package to generate the file, and the npm 'inquirer' package for generating the prompt questions.
Inside the generateMarkdown.js file, markdown language has been used inside a template literal to form the README file around the user input.


### My Experience

I found building this application relatively straightforward, but did struggle with the modularisation of the generateMarkdown function, as for a previous challenge I'd placed all the code to generate a html file inside a single js file. I enjoyed getting to practise node.js.




## Resources

With the exception of the Lorem Ipsum text which was copy-pasted into the demo file (as seen in the video), no text or code was taken directly from these resources. These pages were used for **reference only**:

Professional README guide:
https://coding-boot-camp.github.io/full-stack/github/professional-readme-guide

Badges:
https://gist.github.com/lukas-h/2a5d00690736b4c3a7ba

inquirer guidance:
https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer
https://www.npmjs.com/package/inquirer-list-input

Readme tables of contents guidance:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11948245/markdown-to-create-pages-and-table-of-contents

Lorem Ipsum text for demo:
https://www.lipsum.com/feed/html




## Video demonstration

A video demonstration of this application is hosted on Google Drive and should be accessible to watch through this link:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fRnIZbkgXM4fWNXS7RZfyhrJasqCtiuF/view?usp=sharing
The demo readme file generated by this application can be found in the 'demo-readme' folder in this repo.